#Large-scale Music Genre Analysis and Classification using Machine Learning With Apache Spark
Large-scale Music Genre Analysis and Classification using Machine Learning With Apache Spark

The trend for listening to music online has greatly increased over the past decade due to the number of online musical tracks. The large music databases of music libraries that are provided by online music content distribution vendors, make music streaming and downloading services more accessible to the end-user. It is essential to classify similar types of songs with an appropriate tag or index (genres) to present similar songs in a convenient way to the end-user. As the trend of online music listening continues to increase, developing multiple machine learning models to classify the music genres has become a main area of research. In this research paper, a popular music dataset GTZAN which contains ten music genres is analysed to study various types of music features and audio signals. Multiple scalable machine learning algorithms supported by Apache Spark such as Naïve Bayes, Decision Tree, Logistic Regression, and Random Forest are investigated for the classification of music genres. The performance of these classifiers is compared, and the Random Forest has performed as the best classifier for the classification of music genres. Apache Spark is used in this paper to reduce the computation time for machine learning predictions with no computational cost as it focuses on parallel computation. This present work also demonstrates that the perfect combination of Apache Spark and machine learning algorithms reduces the scalability problem of the computation of machine learning predictions. Moreover, different hyperparameters of the Random Forest classifier are optimized to increase the performance efficiency of the classifier in the domain of music genre classification. The experimental outcome shows that the developed Random Forest classifier can establish a high level of performance accuracy, especially for mislabelled, distorted GTZAN dataset. This classifier has outperformed other machine learning classifiers supported by Apache Spark in the present work. The reason why the Random Forest classifier outperformed other classifiers is also discussed in this paper.   In future research, two different music datasets with similar features and genres could be used with the developed Random Forest classifier for the classification of music genres to address the real-world scenario. 
